# File structure

It is a good practice to standardize the file structure of projects. This way it’s easier to keep a clean overview of multiple projects, and less time is wasted trying to find the correct class.

When using DotKernel API the following structure is recommended:

## Main directories

* `src` - should contain the source code files
* `templates` - should contain the page templates and layouts
* `data` - should contain project-related data (AVOID storing sensitive data on VCS)
* `docs` - should contain project-related documentation

These directories reside in one of the following directories:

* if the Module is a composer package where the directories above are stored in the package’s root path, eg.: `/vendor/my-name/my-project-name/`
* if the Module is an extension/component for the project, eg.: `/src/MyProjectName`

## The `src` directory

This directory contains all source code related to the Module. It should contain following directories, if they’re not empty:

* Handler - Action classes (similar to Controllers but can only perform one action)
* Entity - For database entities
* Service - Service classes
* Collection - Database entities collections
* Repository - Entity repository folder

> The above example is just some of the directories a project may include, but these should give you an idea of how the structure should look like.

Other classes in the `src` directory may include `InputFilter`, `EventListener`, `Helper`, `Command`, `Factory` etc.

The `src` directory should also contain 2 files:

* `ConfigProvider.php` - Provides configuration data
* `RoutesDelegator.php` - Module main routes entry file

## The `templates` directory

This directory contains the template files, used for example to help render e-mail templates.

> DotKernel API uses twig as Templating Engine. All template files have the extension .html.twig

## The `data` directory

This directory contains project-related data (such as cache, file uploads)

We recommend using the following directory structure:

* `data/cache` - location where caches are stored
* `data/oauth` - encryption, private and public keys needed for authentication.
* `data/lock` - folder where lock files generated by commands are stored, if enabled
* `data/doctrine/fixtures` - folder for doctrine data fixtures
* `data/doctrine/migrations` - folder for doctrine migrations
